yeah so the ego arises is a protective
mechanism it's like the bouncer of your
mind so for example if I ask someone out
on a date and they turn me down
then my ego says oh they're not actually
that pretty I was doing them a favor
does that make sense that that people
will have those kinds of thoughts yeah
well i am i calling you loser fruit by
the way um yeah you can just call me
Kathleen Kathleen okay yeah
because sometimes I you know I truncate
when people have a compound name or use
like a first part of the name and it
yeah yeah thanks for coming on Kathleen
so help me understand a little bit about
what we're gonna be talking about today
and and how we can be helpful or
actually should I ask you to it actually
first let's introduce you yeah because
I've been told I should ask people to do
that because I'm eager to dive right in
but can you just tell us a little bit
about yourself and so you're a streamer
and yeah so and Kathleen loses fruit and
Australian streamer I used to live in a
gaming house called okay Cass and now I
just do YouTube and streaming okay
awesome cool yeah and is there something
in particular that you wanted to talk
about today um I think one of the main
things was panic attacks okay on stream
and oh my gos and how I guess being
opened with mental health and having an
audience you know and then they come to
you to you with their problems and how
like that's a lot wow so people come to
you with their problems I mean yeah I
mean it's like twitch chat like people
are very openness so okay okay I'm glad
they're sharing it could be a lot to
handle and then yeah I guess the last
thing was about um dealing with a few
people I think think I like gaslighting
me and I just don't know how to do that
well say okay that's scary yeah so what
would you what would you like to start
with like panic attacks or panic attacks
yeah yeah so help me understand what you
mean by a panic attack um sometimes you
get just super nervous and then
everything just stops functioning and I
just can't do anything for like about a
half an hour or something like that it's
just everything just gets really I guess
Larry and too much and overwhelming and
I just kind of just lay there sit there
and just kind of take it it sounds awful
yeah a very nervous person I think okay
are you feeling nervous right now
mmm-hmm yeah um yeah so let's just so I
want you to do me a favor
can you close your eyes for a second
yeah okay so like there's something like
the panic attack actually happening
right now right just nervousness so
what's the difference um the difference
is I guess I just I can't function when
I'm having the panic attack I get breath
is I can't breathe very well okay and
yeah you know kind of like wanted I type
thing yeah do you want to die or you
feel like you're gonna die and I say
it's um like feel like I'm going to die
yeah yeah but I yeah
have you seen some what about this like
a mental health professional hmm no it's
only happened to me like three times I'd
say in the past years sir Oh in the past
year oh that's not that much you say
last for about half an hour yeah but
okay sometimes I could feel them coming
on and then I just try to help myself
stop it oh you have stopped it I think I
have yeah okay that's pretty amazing how
do anything yet how do you do that I
don't I am focused on one thing and then
I just like a pen or something and look
at it and then it just yeah I hope it
doesn't happen yeah okay and so as you
when you start to feel it coming on what
do you feel um you know like the world's
coming in on me I guess okay just being
searched into like a tight space okay
yeah so like like there's not enough
space for you to exist and everything on
the outside is kind of pressing into you
I'm kind of like that but it's also very
much internally as well what do you mean
by that like the chest chest is like
there's something around the chest it's
just like grab hiding to it yeah okay is
there something in particular that
brings it on um I haven't really been
able to pinpoint that to be honest with
you um I don't know if it's just stress
so like something gets like there's too
much attention or something like that
that's something like that yeah yeah I
mean I guess if it's happened three
times in two years it's hard to kind of
pick out a pattern yeah okay you know it
sounds like you've had a couple of other
times that maybe it was gonna happen and
by concentrating on a specific object
you've been able to kind of keep it at
bay yeah and sometimes sometimes I think
it might have happened but I don't know
if it was as bad as the other time so I
don't know if that count okay and
doesn't happen it has it ever woken you
up from sleep no okay and are you
nervous about something when these these
panic attacks happen yes yeah yeah okay
is something in particular
hmm I guess I'm like not doing enough
and not being good enough this is the
main thing that really I think triggers
them so I'm just yeah I guess because
I've had it when playing games once too
you know it's just like not good enough
and yeah I think it's a lot of that a
lot of okay insecurities yeah it and so
when you say insecurities you mean you
you feel like you're not doing a good
enough job yeah I feel that a lot now
okay and what does a good enough job
look like how would you know if you were
doing a good enough job I'm gonna just
see the cough drop okay okay um I don't
I don't know um I guess when I see
everyone surrounding me and like that
they're doing good enough and I just I
don't know if I ever am yeah only if you
mean happy I guess lately it's how
well yeah you have been happy you said
like I really have a few times I've been
happy we like okay that was I was a good
stream that was a good video I really
had that thing a few songs when he lost
yeah put a lot of pressure on yourself
yeah for as long as I know yeah I'd say
yeah since you're a young kid yeah yeah
I gotta do the best best I can do you
have to do the best that you can or you
have to do the best there's a big
difference then oh no I don't have to do
the best but the best I can
yeah yeah because I know I've accepted a
long time ago that I know the best thing
good for you yeah and and so you feel
like you're you're not usually doing the
best that you can
yeah I feel like I am just I don't know
I guess when I see other people
extremely and I see myself dream you had
compared myself which I know I shouldn't
do but I can't help myself because I
like to draw inspiration from other
people like anyone would so I see my
friend who I lived in in that gaming
house which I just moved out of a week
ago um
Cray and I see him like he's so
energetic and loud and stream and I get
so jealous cuz I'm more like I'm more
very relaxed than that and I'm just like
I guess I'm like I found out that energy
I'm not providing enough I'm not as
funny as he is with that and I just I
just get that so I'm like what do I have
to offer
how can I be good and what do you have
to offer yeah that's that's a question I
mean
I'm prettier aquella duh keeping things
going along when I'm streaming with
friends and like asking them questions
and getting them like I think that's one
of the things I can offer ya it's like
okay kind of moving things along oh yeah
can I just think for a second yeah is
that gonna make you nervous if I just
sit here quietly for just a second no
okay
so your people people like watching you
right like people come and sometimes
they feel really really comfortable and
they will sometimes share things from
their personal life because they feel
supported or they feel like it's a safe
space for them to talk about their own
problems yep yeah what do you think
about that um I mean it's really cool I
love I have a really like open community
I feel and then yeah I've got a little
community at giving back and it's it's
nice to say that um yeah I guess
sometimes gets a bit too much when
people bring up particularly when I'm
trying to like you know I'm trying to
make stream I'm trying to like have this
like positive attitude I'm trying to do
something and yeah I guess people often
come to the stream bring up their
problem sort of thing because it's more
of it I guess quieter stream where you
would do it something like that yes
notice like very spammy type thing um
and you think that high energy streams
are better
um not necessarily I just feel like they
giving more I don't feel like people
like them more I guess yeah yeah do you
feel like you're light are you like yeah
mm-hmm I think I'm like them don't know
if I'm likeable no yeah I'm getting that
so what's the difference let's talk
about that for a second is that okay if
I asked you a few questions about that
yeah sure what's the difference between
being liked and being likeable and being
like - iam is just knowing that a few
people like you so you liked and
likeable is that you're easy to get
along with mm-hm I guess I'm not a bit
more standoffish not as like a wall not
for as friendly and some others okay do
you think
excuse me do you think that the people
who like you do you feel do you feel
like you're kind of like being how can I
say this do you feel like you're
sometimes scamming them or do you feel
like you're you're genuinely like
there's something within you that is
deserving of being liked I guess like
when it comes to like the internet and I
see people who say yeah I like what you
do and like you've helped me so much I
feel like you know I'm a bit scamming
them in a way I'm like but why you know
yes sir yeah it's very I mean up what if
I told you I feel exactly the same way
yeah it's like I just talked to people
on twitch sometimes and then twitch chat
says that it helps a lot and I'm like
I'm just talking to someone how does
that work
yeah I don't get it but it does and I
know little things have helped me too so
it doesn't even have to be a big thing
that someone's doing so I kind I
personally from the other side like
surely the small things do help um it's
hard to think that I could help yeah
yeah so where did you get the idea that
you can't really help people um I don't
think I can't really help people I just
don't know why people think I'm helpful
I guess so so it it's a little bit
confusing to you but you do do you do
think that you genuinely believe that
you can help people um well people have
said I've helped them there I believe
that yeah you you believe in their words
yes yeah so this is kind of this is kind
of weird can I tell you Kathleen what
I'm hearing
okay it's really hard to kind of tease
apart because it's very subtle
so I hear so this is what I see I see
someone who's actually really smart very
logical
and interprets data and you look at
other people and other people tell you
that they're there helped by you you
have viewers that really enjoy watching
what you do it sounds like you're pretty
open and it's like kind of like a more
chill stream where people feel really
comfortable it's not like the super high
energy like emote spamming kind of like
you know classic twitch it's like it's
like more chill people feel really it
sounds like they feel comfortable and
people tell you that that watching you
helps them and that you've affected them
in some way and you're a logical person
so you kind of intellectually believe
that right yeah what I'm getting from
you though is like some subtle sense
that like that's not really you like I'm
getting some some deeper sense of for
lack of a better word insecurities like
that you're not capable of helping
people even though you have evidence to
the contrary there's like a part of you
that doesn't believe that you can like
really make a big difference I mean yeah
I mean the grants Gail he'll know I
can't make a difference but I mean even
in the smaller thing yeah I don't I
don't see what I can do special to
provide that someone else couldn't
couldn't do better yeah so it's so
subtle
right cuz you kind of say that there's
nothing about me that's special mm-hmm
is that is there a part of you that
believes that mmm oh yeah and it
happened some stream all the time and I
kind of go in on myself and I I really
like think I'm like I there's nothing I
can say right now I'm I'm really not
entertaining her an interesting person
so um and then I just get worked up in
my own head and I'm kind of good quiet
mm-hm yeah I mean it sounds like you
I'm gonna just think for another second
so I'm trying to figure out where that
comes from because I just don't believe
that so I think that there's a part of
you so I think sometimes we feel
insecure about the person that we are
and we feel like we can't help other
people or that we're not special or that
we're kind of like imposters do you ever
feel like an impostor mmm yes sometimes
yeah
and so but somewhere along the way I
think I would guess that you learned to
like that belief doesn't come from
nowhere right the belief that like
you're not something special comes from
somewhere do you remember feeling that
way as a kid mm-hmm I mean yeah I guess
so I mean and there wasn't be no event
or anything I just felt that way I
suppose and I never really wanted to
feel special that to be fair yeah sure
yeah can you tell me a little bit about
what what growing up was like for you no
I had a great a great childhood single
mother raised me my older brother and
we're just kind of like I know just kind
of spent a lot of time like alone doing
my own things and ya know I had some
great friends and I was just always
really the quiet one who never said
anything um yeah I said him I felt like
I had anything to add or anything good
enough dad but yeah my childhood yeah
okay what was school like for you um
educationally it's easy it's fun
socially actually I had a really good
group of friends so okay yeah you felt
supported yeah do you feel like your
friends valued you as a person
yeah yeah and your what's your
relationship with your brother like oh
great okay yeah yeah this is subtle all
right I'm just gonna I'm gonna need a
second to think is that okay so I want
to come back to this you said that you
felt li you were always quiet because
you felt like you didn't have anything
that was worth saying or if I am said
anything it would be stupid yeah Oh
correct yeah do you remember actually
saying something stupid and like
learning that mm-hmm I mean all the time
yeah yeah not specifically but yeah okay
and what would happen when you would say
something stupid yeah I just feel really
embarrassed how did you know that you
said something stupid looks like I guess
when people laugh at you
well they say that's wrong yeah either
one did that happen a lot did people
laugh at you a lot when you spoke um not
only no no no but I was very fearful it
would happen cuz it didn't happen too
often
yeah okay so you were afraid of it
happening and you were really careful
about it yeah really careful about what
you said try to avoid sounding stupid
yeah okay and is it okay if we switch
gears for a second and you so you've
mentioned something about gas lighting
oh yeah yeah yeah there you tell me a
little bit about that yeah there's a few
people in my life that I you know I have
to be close to you um like work and them
seem to just
I'm wrong a lot or like disagree with me
a lot or they try to just make sure like
things look fine they're like
everything's fine everything's fine
when it's just not and it's okay to
admit it's not okay and circuit fixing
and so every time I bring up a problem I
mean just feel like I feel like a
villain like that student trying to poke
holes and you know things are trying to
bring down the mood and I I just want
things to be better and I just I guess
like after dealing with it for a year
I've just gotten really sick of being
treated like that you know every time I
have an opinion or I say something I
just it's always it always has to be
something else nice to be yeah so it
sounds like they're kind of ignoring
problems yeah do you feel like you're
the one person who's kind of pointing
out that things are not going well and
people are not taking you seriously um
no I think I'm not the only person I
think there's heaps of people I think
I've just been doing it the longest
I guess as yeah okay doing it and is
there a particular person that is not
listening to what you have to say oh
yeah yeah what's can you and if I don't
know like how public or private or drama
inducing this is so if there's something
you don't want to answer you know by all
means don't answer it yeah
I'm just really taken aback by is that
really hard for you to kind of point
that out to people um what's what's
wrong yeah like um no I've been I feel
like I'm pretty blunt person sometimes
too blunt sometimes rude I guess but um
I mean I get pretty worked up when I'm
doing it I get pretty nervous when I'm
doing it but I always feel like people
need to hear problems and I would like
someone to tell me like sure he is
something you could work on and and so
can you give me an example of what kind
of problem you're talking um not too
specifically but if I care there was
like a um there wasn't like an idea that
they thought and they would okay so
there was an idea that they had they
were using our names for it and they
thought it was some super detrimental to
them but I'm just telling them that
using our names is a great thing and
they kept being bashing me down for it
they're like no it's terrible it's like
things like that it's just they keep
saying no you're wrong and I know I'm
not wrong and it just annoys me that
yeah I have other people around me who
are just like no that's you you were
right but what's annoying about that um
it's it's just that it doesn't it's they
seem to want to do whatever is right to
them they seem to want to make
themselves look good and seem to it's
almost manipulate us into thinking that
we don't know what's right
yeah cuz I guess you don't sound like
you're being manipulated you sound like
you know what's right and what's wrong
sounds like you're dealing with someone
who's kind of an [ __ ] or narcissistic
I suppose you could say that yeah I
guess I guess so but it's just I still
have to work with these people so it's
just like how do I continue to work with
people who I don't really respect that
much and who don't seem to respect me
I'm confused by the gaslighting so what
you said to me just makes a lot of sense
so it sounds like you're in a situation
where you don't really respect someone
else's take on things and it sounds like
they don't respect your opinion on
things yeah and so so it sounds like I
mean my um my understanding a sliding is
its when someone sort of tricks you into
believing something that is like false
okay okay
is that what you meant like I mean kind
of because I'm going through my head I
keep pretending that they're good that
they that they're right I didn't think
that they're right but I'm like you know
what maybe they're right maybe they're
right there maybe that they are better
at that job than I've been like saying
like I I so I do kind of convince myself
that it is via the case so that we
should definitely talk about where did
you learn how to do that where did you
learn how to convince yourself that you
were wrong
it's not necessarily that I'm wrong but
like more like convinced myself that
that I don't know the full story and
then I don't know what it's like to be
them and they they might have something
that is valid that I don't know of so
that's yeah so it's just it's not that
you're wrong it's that there's there
could be more complexity this situation
yeah hmm and and you're bringing this up
because you'd like to better understand
how to be able to interact with them in
like a positive way yeah yeah okay I
said yeah it's my best interests to keep
around them in I know outside of like
business things they're good people
I like to believe that I don't I don't
know but yeah I guess okay on a business
level how do I keep yeah and and and
when when you when you okay okay I just
need to think for a second okay
so Kathleen here's what I find to be a
little bit confusing about trying to
understand your perspective mm-hmm so
sometimes when I'm talking to people
there's like something like
psychological that's that maybe is a
little bit of a distortion or is like is
something that is kind of like The
Smoking Gun like there's something going
on in their mind which is like actually
like problematic and usually I can sort
of sniff that out and try to help people
understand it and a lot of times people
come on the stream because I help them
understand kind of how their mind is
working so you're doing something that's
very interesting which is that you'll
start to say a statement and then all
I'll respond to you with kind of like an
amplified version so I'll kind of say
like okay like for example I said
something about okay so you're in a
conversation with someone and you have a
particular belief and they disagree with
you and then you do some kind of mental
gymnastics to bring yourself closer to
what they believe right does that make
sense yeah you kinda feel yeah exactly
exactly my point so then what I would do
is I will repeat something back to you
right so I'll say oh so like like also
like I did make a definitive statement
about who's right and who's wrong and
then what you do is is it doesn't seem
like I'm actually right about when I
make an amplified statement then what
you always do is you add like more
qualification in the middle like you're
adding I'm trying to be a little bit
black and white with you and you're
adding a lot of gray in the middle does
that make sense
mm-hmm yeah so so like even now just
when I said so I said you'll do some
because like literally you just told me
that you know if you disagree with
someone you'll think oh maybe they know
something I don't
or maybe I'm maybe they do know
something that I don't understand like
something happens in your mind where
like you have a belief and they have a
belief and then you like sort of move
into this grey zone which is actually
like closer to them
then then what you believe does that
make sense
yeah I don't think I move closer to what
they believe thing I'm pretty sure of my
own opinions of okay these particular
people so okay so yeah so and so when
you start to what is what is the result
of you thinking well maybe they know
something I don't um it just makes it
easier for me to talk to them to make
them not believe that they're trying to
manipulate me cuz that's what I think
they're doing so if I kind of pretend to
be them I'm just like maybe it says
something then they don't look so ya
mean no I guess yeah wait wait say that
again what why do you need it hmm
why do you tell yourself that why do you
do all that because it makes what easier
it makes it easier to talk to them how
does it make it easier to talk to them
um so I don't think that they're
manipulative people that I think that
it's just normal people with different
things going on right and why do you
think they're manipulative people
because they're always trying to push my
opinions down and just yeah trying to
take conflicting opinions even though
I'm even when I'm right even when I'm
wrong that's fine too but like I know
I've been right and they've done that
and they certainly made me feel very
small yeah so they make you feel small
yeah so when you start to okay hold on
let me just see if I can follow you here
okay so you share an opinion with them
they respond in a way that makes you
feel small and then you start to add
like more grey to the discussion you
start to put yourself in their shoes and
then if you put yourself in their shoes
and maybe they understand something that
you don't understand then
it's not like you're just wrong there's
like more to the equation and therefore
you feel less small um no I don't think
I feel less small I just ma I mean I
guess but like I am it's more like
thinking about what their their opinion
makes them easier to talk to you I'd say
makes them easier to talk to in what way
when you do that in your mind what
becomes easier how does it become easier
to interact with them um because I think
that they am actually logical people
because in my mind I'm like they're
logical people they had a reason to say
this the way they did they had a reason
to to make me feel go to you know say I
was wrong or and really like stick to it
um so
maybe it justifies them making you feel
small yeah yeah no that's a good way of
putting it yeah there it is okay sorry
it took me a little while to understand
so so it justifies have you ever been in
an abusive kind of relationship no no
okay I've had very healthy relationships
yeah because because now what I'm
hearing you do so just just hear me out
for a second okay so and prepare for the
shades of grey so it sounds to me like
you do some kind of thinking in your
head that justifies them making you feel
the way that you do yeah what do you
think about that hmm and I think it's
just how I cope dealing them with them
because I think it's probably the most
unhealthy relationship I have is with
these individuals okay yeah I completely
agree that that's the way that you cope
what do you think about that way of
coping I think um I mean it works if I
try to tell them you know things if I
try to work it out I don't know if they
would agree I feel like again it would
be swept under the rug and again I will
be told I'm wrong so I just don't see a
point in ever confronting it of how they
made me feel for the past like yeah yeah
yes sir
how would you describe this relationship
oh I completely mean it works at
something it works in what way does it
work let's talk about this for a second
actually um I just waxed helping me
helping me continue what I what I want
to do which incidentally involves them
so okay helps me continue that yeah I
agree so it sounds like it
it keeps the train moving on the tracks
yep
what is what does it cost you um I guess
I mean just the injury just the
interactions with them in general cost
me a little bit of time and then
headspace like sometimes it's all I can
think about and I hate that because I
don't want to think negatively of people
but you know I really do why don't you
want to think negatively of people it's
not fair to them really then oh they're
just people like me like real floored no
way he's so I don't want to be like
delving deep into hate or something I
dunno if that's healthy for me yeah I
think I this is gonna sound completely
crazy I think it is so so yeah I I think
I think you should let yourself feel
more anger so like you just said like
you just said that everyone has flaws
right and sometimes people make mistakes
and sometimes people say things that
make you feel like a small person yeah
and how do you feel towards them I mean
I I wanted you know just dry them yeah I
wanted
yeah I want to yell at them yeah but I
want to make them feel small yeah there
it is
okay now we're getting somewhere where
are you aware that you feel that way
yeah yeah no I've got a letter H in me
yeah absolutely you do
I think it's it's hiding and it's it's
confused the [ __ ] out of me because I
didn't understand why I was not able to
connect with what you were saying but I
think I finally understand I think
you're very very angry so like at first
I thought it was like some weird lack of
self-confidence that you know cuz you
use these words like gaslighting and you
feel manipulated but you're actually
you're not of yeah but I think it's I
think it's anger like are you angry with
these people yes and what do you do with
that anger that you feel i rant a little
bit and I or I just put my anger back
into my wick just like hot or I write
things down I remember like it sometimes
keep a diary and one time I just write
about how I hate this is one person and
I felt bad ever since I wrote it like a
soul out then yeah but it also sounds
like you judge yourself a lot for being
angry with them yeah that you do some
really weird mental gymnastics too like
I still don't quite understand this but
you do something weird because like it
so let me understand if this makes sense
or not okay so like there's something
going on where they say something that
makes you feel a certain way and then
you put yourself in like when someone
treats you like crap you put yourself in
their shoes and then you try to
understand them better and as you try to
understand the person who is hurtful to
you what does it do for you what happens
in your mind when you do that I know I
guess I could just continue on I I don't
have to think about them as much if I
just I don't hate them as much I can
just yeah so good what is this beautiful
what is this what is that this mood to
me that they're not as important
okay so you make them small in your mind
by understanding them yeah and then if
they're small then you're less hurt um I
just it's not less hit but I just think
about them less I guess overall that's
yeah okay do you feel comfortable with
being angry with them I'm just I've
gotten used to it so a little bit
comfortable yeah and so you've got like
some kind of volcano inside you right
yeah yeah how long is that volcano been
there every year I'd say yeah yeah cuz
you're not actually like I'm not
detecting a lack of confidence from you
okay do you feel like you're confident
in yourself touch it go I guess no never
be told that and never been told why
that's huh like and I've seen actually
now I have been told I've seen confident
confident it just doesn't make any sense
to me that people you don't feel
confident not overly no okay yeah so I'm
gonna ask you a question Kathleen
sometimes they're people and they're
wrong right and you're right and you're
pretty sure about that 100% yeah a
hundred percent not just pretty sure now
you're the one who's amplifying so here
I am sitting in the grey and I say
you're pretty right and then you're
saying no hundred percent so that's not
confidence what is that
okay maybe that's converted spit no it's
not you're right you're not confident
it's something else very subtle very
very you're just subtle subtle subtle
subtle subtle kathleen okay when you're
a hundred percent right and there are a
hundred percent wrong what is that
that's just it's arrogance and arrogance
how does that sound
uh I mean okay I guess I think what
makes it okay is that I'm not the only
one that I have other people let's say
your same thing yeah yeah so I think
together I think sometimes you're right
I'm not disputing that you're right this
is this is it I'm gonna just get another
second to think okay I'm arrogant okay
what do you think about that do you
think you're arrogant what once I said
it does it sound kind of weird it's oh
it sounds kind of weird but it's not
like it's not it's not so far from the
truth
I don't think oh yeah yeah it's subtle
cuz the thing is you're meek that's why
I think people don't perceive you as
arrogant because you're me you're like
quiet and you smile a lot and you speak
softly but I think deep down you are you
or really do not get like in your mind
there's like very clear people being
right and people being wrong
and you try really hard to try to
understand them but you're trying what
you're trying to do is disarm your own
arrogance in a weird way does that make
sense at all it kind of does yeah yeah
help me understand it when you say yeah
it kind of does what help me talk to I
mean I guess that
oh sorry I'm just really throwing back
about the arrogant thing I know I am too
I'm [ __ ] confused I mean I suppose I
thought I mean yes but Kathleen but
let's pause for a sec cause I just I
just could be wrong right I could be
wrong about that you may not be arrogant
so it sounded bad I I'm okay good but
does it resonate with you do you think
that that could be the case I don't know
I honestly don't know I've never thought
about it
I don't okay let me tell you what I
think is going on okay so I'm gonna tell
you about something called the Oh hum
god
the Omkar is the son script word for ego
and the ego is like a protective
mechanism okay so the ego arises when
you start to feel bad and makes you feel
better by pumping yourself up or putting
other people down and I think you have a
very very subtle ego and so the other
thing about a hum car is that generally
speaking the more build more confidence
you have the less egotistical you are
those are a lot of people think that
those are like similar they're actually
at the opposite ends of a spectrum okay
so just think about like if someone's
egotistical and you call them an idiot
how are they going to respond
defensively yeah and if someone's
confident you call them an idiot how are
they going to respond
probably just brush it off absolutely so
which one do you do when they make you
feel small how do you respond um I used
to like yell back at them always like
would you take them but and but now I
just more like keep to myself
and then just yell at them in my head
later yes very good right so I'm not
hearing any brushing off
Yeah right so this is what I mean so I
think you have a subtle ah-hum car which
is actually ego which is kind of like
arrogance because in here you're still
[ __ ] raging at them you so rage at
them like this and that didn't work it
didn't get what you wanted which was to
show them that you're right and they're
wrong right and so now you yell in here
and then you also do some kind of weird
mental gymnastics to like quiet all
those feelings to cope because you have
to work with these people you have to
wake up the next day and you have to be
a part of your life so you got to learn
how to manage your ego you've got to
learn how to manage your anger and you
also have to learn how to manage your
hurt right because that's the other
thing that's going on is that they make
you feel small yeah so the ego arises
it's a protective mechanism it's like
the bouncer of your mind so for example
if I ask someone out on a date and they
turn me down
then my ego says oh they're not actually
that pretty I was doing them a favor
does that make sense that that people
will have those kinds of thoughts yeah
do you see how those thoughts are like
egotistical and dumb yeah and also
completely natural yeah yeah so like so
the origin of ego is actually hurt so
like if you got hurt in some way I think
this thing arises within you and then
you kind of yell at them a little bit in
your head you convince yourself that
you're right and then you also try to do
this weird thing where like you change
the way that you think about them so
that you no longer have to feel hurt
mm yeah I guess so yeah
I mean I'm still hurt in a lot of ways
just a wish but windows resolve things
yeah I agree so now hold on a second
don't run away from this okay so let me
just look and you say I guess so I'm
gonna tunnel down is it are we doing
okay by the way is this okay
am I being nice to you am I being
hurtful or do I want you to so so when
they make you feel hurt and you put
yourself in their shoes what does that
do
let's understand what's going on in your
mind
when you try to understand them and you
like expand the horizon of their thought
process what does it do okay what does
it do to your feelings of being hurt I
mean it kind of protects myself how very
good how in that it doesn't make I don't
have an enemy I just like they just I
just keep them in my head I think
friends are what they should be and I
guess yeah so you see what your mind is
doing there is is protecting yourself by
understanding their viewpoint but the
goal here is still to protect yourself
from that hurt because you would rather
the more you can justify okay let me
just think about how to say this and you
Kathleen you gotta tell me if I'm just
like way wrong okay because I don't I
don't actually know what I'm talking
about so I'm relying on you to let me
know are we doing okay does this feel
like it's actually we're getting
somewhere
I feel like somewhere yeah okay
so yeah it's subtle it's very very
subtle so when someone does something to
hurt you or when you feel hurt by
someone they can have a good reason to
say something that is hurtful to you or
they can have not a good reason and if
they have a good reason to say something
hurtful or if they have a bad reason to
say something hurtful which one hurts
more bad reason I'd say actually very
good very very good this is heart very
good why it doesn't make sense to me
yeah because like like it's so much more
personal if they don't have a good
reason to be upset with you right like
it's just like raw hatred if like if you
forgot to pick someone up from the
airport and they're pissed at you that
sort of makes sense because you
understand that you screwed up but if
you showed up on time and they're still
pissed at you and yelling at you which
one is more hurtful like one way you
dude you show up in time yeah can you do
everything right so this is subtle but
like so I think you've got to be careful
because what you try to do when you try
to understand them you're moving them
from not having a good reason of being
angry with you into the camp of having a
good reason to be angry with you does
that make sense yeah do you agree that
you're doing that I mean yeah I guess I
mean that's what I'm basing that based
on what you've told me is that you try
to understand their viewpoint and oh
yeah like maybe they are right yeah
maybe they they do have a good reason to
make me feel this way
because yeah yeah don't yeah I kind of
committed myself of that a little bit
I'd still don't maybe I do have a good
reason so maybe no yes very good so so
now we're also now very good
Kathleen so now it's not that it's both
of these things happen in your mind at
the same time there's a part of you
which knows you're [ __ ] right and
knows they're wrong and then at the same
time there's this other part of your
mind that's doing this weird process do
you see that they're like completely
independent like you can believe that
they are have good reasons to say the
things that they do and also that
they're complete idiots like your mind
actually believes both of those at the
same time agree or disagree I can't read
your military angry angry yeah so so
that's okay like that's so the first
thing is I want you to just notice that
your mind actually has these parallel
processes it's like you're running more
than one program at the same time and
and it's protective and stuff like that
but I think I think that there's a part
of you and this is the really bizarre
thing is that deep down I think that you
can't handle someone being just me like
like there's something that's really
hurtful it's not just you anyone you
know you have to have a good reason for
someone to be angry with you and to
treat you like poorly like it's it's so
much more tolerable when someone has a
good reason to treat you like crap
yeah it is because otherwise the person
would be I guess a bad person and that
they've been doing this to make me feel
bad and then oh they just don't like me
well they just yeah so so that's where
we have to be really careful because
we're what do you think about that
sometimes I believe that I sometimes I
believe they are actually and not a nice
person and I don't want to because I've
known them for so long
but um so for this to come up more
recently it's just well in the last year
it's like yeah yeah so I think Kathleen
this is complicated I think your mind is
first of all awesome but also incredibly
incredibly subtle and I think you've
learned a lot of different ways to
manage a lot of different things that
your mind does in a lot of the ways that
you feel so you've learned some really
interesting techniques to manage your
anger you also learned a lot of
different ways to manage your lack of
confidence because something about this
makes it so that you can't brush them
off yeah right so like this this is the
really really subtle part which I could
be completely wrong about because it's
it's almost like I'm sniffing around the
edges but I think that there still is
something within you that if I had to
guess I'd say that something with it
someone in your life probably when you
were young actually treated you bad in
like a completely like not excusable way
like there was no reason for them to
treat you the way that they did and they
did and it sunk in really deep has that
ever happened to you where someone just
just treated you like crap does that
ring a bell
not that I can recall I'm not sure with
it I'm just like hiding it for myself
but like I no I don't think so
if you don't think so we're just gonna
trust you and I just could be wrong it's
just in my experience a lot of people
you know who deal with making
excuses for someone being mean to you is
something that sometimes happens from
abusive relationships does that make
sense yeah like making excuses for
someone who mistreats you and like
trying to put yourself in their shoes is
kind of like textbook abusive partner
kind of behavior yeah and so ah this
would be probably the first time which I
would have a relationship like this so
is this the first time you've done
something like this in your head where
you like someone's treating you poorly
and then you try to like really go out
of your way to understand their
viewpoint yeah okay and this has been
going on for a year yeah yeah bit longer
yeah okay so I think then this could
just be the way that you learned how to
cope in this relationship right so this
does sound okay so it doesn't have to be
something from your past I mean if it's
been going on from a year it can be this
you do you have any questions for me by
the way um I did but I've forgotten okay
is this like kind of too abstract or
cerebral are you like fault because I
feel like I'm barely understanding this
no it's it's it's good if you wanted to
move on that's fine too but it is it's
good for me to realize I guess the only
one thing is that I don't know I still
don't know how I'm supposed to deal with
am I supposed to let it just let it go
is that what I'm supposed to do yeah
eventually but that's hard that's hard
to learn how to do so let's talk
practicalities so in my day job I do
some corporate consulting and sometimes
in my corporate consulting I have to
talk to people and I try to like coach
them and help them understand like how
to deal with difficult individuals or
[ __ ] in the workplace so there are
two angles that we can take one is that
we can like try to understand like
what's going on in your head and we kind
of did that okay and I'll be a little
bit more concrete and hopefully helpful
as we kind of sum that up the other
thing we can do is just talk about
techniques to actually deal with this
person that's not usually what we do on
stream but if that would be helpful to
you I actually want to help you in some
way um I mean maybe it would so the
first thing is that when you have a
disagreement with them can you tell me
the sequence of events in terms of how
you talk to them um I guess I can be a
bit brash in how I talk to them so like
they would say like I think we should
use like I don't know it's just stupid
example like if like a yellow colored
shop you know they're like no but like a
orange one is obviously the better way
and more inclusive way to go and people
agree with me I'm like okay yeah that
seems smart and then they say no it's
not I really think that's my good idea
Mike that's fair and then they say no I
think maybe they've kind of really just
keep pushing their an idea constantly
like like where it well sometimes they
yell sometimes they just keep it well
it's a little bit yeah that's kind of
simply put okay so I think you're
dealing with someone who themselves has
a confidence problem what do you think
about that hmm now they seem pretty
freaking confident in themselves I
completely agree I totally they have a
confidence problem because what they
have is arrogance and not confidence
maybe right because they hand they can't
tolerate that someone else has an idea
that's better than theirs because the
confident person if you're saying like
let's use a yellow sharpie and everyone
else is like let's use an orange sharpie
you're like yeah let's just use an
orange sharpie it sounds like I was
wrong Beck does this person admit that
they're wrong no never
mm-hm yeah so if you're confident can
you admit you're wrong yes yes all the
time very easily all the time right so
now you're using amplified statements
and if this person never admits that
they're wrong either they're perfect or
what
yeah Aryan is absolutely right because
the arrogant person doesn't admit
they're wrong so I think first thing you
gotta understand is that you're dealing
with someone who's got a big ego which
I'm sure you figured out I'm sure you
okay and so do like you with me that our
confidence in ego or actually like on
opposite ends of the spectrum yeah yeah
so so I think the main thing here is
that you know anytime you disagree with
them you're gonna be running up against
their ego it's not about the ideas it
completely doesn't become about the
ideas and this can be really frustrating
for people like you who actually have
good reasons for believing the things
that you believe is that you try to
explain to them all of the reasons why
their idea is not as good as your idea
and what happens when you try to explain
things like that to them and it's no
mean like it greeted with a yeah I could
see that but I still think this way but
he'll still they'll still go out of
their way to you know do their own idea
to make sure it's executed in the way
they think okay they don't let go their
an idea yeah okay so yeah so I think
that what you really got to do is first
of all understand that you're dealing
with the ego and that has its own kind
of script so it's not about logic
anymore it's not about the value of your
ideas because this this person's mind is
just not receptive like he doesn't care
or they don't care what the merit of
your idea versus the merit of their idea
does that make sense to you like they
just don't examine the facts at all
they're just it's all about ego and it's
like my idea is better because this is
what I believe and other people are
wrong so I think if you try to convince
them with logic it's not going to work
so if you want to be more manipulative
you can be ego stroking which is not
something that I usually recommend but
you can appeal to their ego do you know
how to do that
mm-hmm not exactly and okay okay some
people just sort of had an instinctive
sense of it but I think the other thing
that you can try doing is try to ask
them what their opinion is and ask them
to explain it and then there's like this
is like a group decision-making thing
I'm a little bit confused by this yeah
okay and then you you so what you want
to do is instead of put forth your
opinion something you can try to ask
them for their opinion and then reflect
back what they say so like if they say I
think we should use a yellow sharpie
because yellow is the best color you can
say okay so it sounds like you think a
yellow Sharpie is the best way to go
because of this and this and then you
can ask other people what they believe
as well and then like you can say like
okay what do you think and someone will
say orange and what do you think and
someone will say orange or you can say
like okay well I was thinking in
addition to considering yellow we could
consider orange and here's why I think
orange would be better and then now this
is a tricky part because you have to
take control of the conversation so this
could be hard then when you've put forth
your idea then you start asking other
people and I'm assuming this is like a
group setting where everyone is talking
together or no yeah okay then you ask
other people then and there which one
they think is better and you kind of you
say okay like so you know we have two
options yellow or orange what do you
think we should do then you ask
open-ended questions and then you ask
the third person what do you think we
should do what do you think we should do
and then you turn back to this person
you say okay so you mentioned yellow
because of this this and these are those
all sound like good reasons to me at the
same time don't say but never say but
okay
yeah at the same time it sounds like
most of the group thinks that orange is
better or orange is should be the call
that we should go that for these what do
you think about that yeah and then
they're going to say okay yeah I hear
what everyone's saying but I still think
yellow is better and you could say okay
so I it sounds like you still are
convinced that yellow is better we're
gonna go with orange because that's what
the group thinks and then you just
period
can you do that does that work I could
try okay what cuz like you can't do that
if this person is your boss mmm no no
the bus yeah so like I think the main
thing there is that that you know like
you you really have to like control the
con this is like some subtle kind of
boardroom like dynamics kind of stuff
does that make sense like do you do you
see what I'm saying so you ask for their
opinion because the more that if you
give them a chance to speak and be heard
and be recognized
then you're gonna disarm the ego and
you'll get less resistance but if you
argue with them and you if you use
phrases like but then it's gonna like
make their ego bigger because they're
gonna fight and then they're not gonna
listen mm-hmm yeah do you feel like you
could do this okay I think I could yeah
what do you think about this I mean it
seems easy enough it's just I just wish
they weren't so disagreeable and so yeah
so so that so that to you learn how to
sit with that so now we're gonna talk
about you again okay so you wish they
weren't so disagreeable mmm that sounds
like kind of like an understatement to
me okay so it's fine for you to be
subtle and meek and understated to the
rest of the world but you should be
honest with yourself
yeah right so it's fine that you want to
present this meek exterior and all that
that's fine so I get that you're you
know your stream is chill and not a
whole lot of ocean but within yourself
you should be honest with yourself are
you honest with yourself
and most of the time I think I mm-hmm
good so I would just encourage you to
like continue to be honest with yourself
right and acknowledge the way that you
feel acknowledge the way that he makes
you feel and also if you want to do
something to disarm his point of view
just understand that it's like he's just
trying to make you feel small like
that's actually what he's trying to do
because the ego pumps itself up and puts
other people down because the smaller he
makes you feel the bigger he's gonna
feel and he's this big ball of like
jelly on the inside that is not
confident in himself so if he can make
other people feel small then he can make
himself feel big and then he feels like
a big boy get support as being hands on
and so just try to recognize that this
actually has nothing to do with you it
just has everything to do with him and
if you I'm sorry if I'm torpedoing
whatever your work relations are by
talking about all the stuff but um you
know I think my hope is that that'll
help you interact with him and also for
you to feel more confident in what you
believe you know which I I know you
already feel confident but you feel a
hundred percent right mm-hmm you okay
any thoughts or questions um no I think
that's a really good yeah
that's a really nice way to put it it's
nice to talk about it yeah do you feel
okay being arrogant um yeah a little bit
as long as I'm aware of it
I feel beautiful right I can do with
that yeah very good yeah I completely
agree so so Kathleen I think the main
thing here is just so we're not perfect
beings right like our minds are just
like this complete mess of different
like processes and you know personality
traits and experiences and stuff like
that in your case here's what I would
kind of sum up the first is that I still
don't really know if you if there's some
part of you that's like insecure deep
down like I get those kinds of vibes but
anytime I kind of dig in that direction
it sounds like there's really nothing
there so I'm still kind of confused by
that so I'm just gonna assume that I'm
wrong there and I'm not sniffing
anything that's that's legit
because you seem to me to be actually
quite self-assured and like kind of who
you are and stuff like that
I think I'm sorry maybe I just think I'm
more insecure than I am I don't know
sorry
just thinking about it just now I'm just
like maybe I just want to feel insecure
or something I don't know you know what
say more about that help me understand
him I guess like I I wanted to believe
I'm who insecure then I am mm-hm maybe
because I mean it's it's easier to to be
insecure and then not pursue the things
that you really want to do because of
those insecurities um then actually go
for what you want to do she's just my
fear we hadn't what do you think about
that what do you think about the words
that just came out of your mouth yeah
it's um yeah maybe I'm holding myself
back a little bit on things that I don't
actually believe in yeah what do you
mean by things you don't believe in
maybe I don't
maybe when I say I can't do things I am
wrong and I don't believe that at all
and I just like to tell myself that yes
very good why do you tell yourself that
so I stopped myself from going for
things and failing at things very good
yeah yeah how long have you been
avoidant a failure
long time yeah I family what say it's
gay yes see see how it said parallel
it's in parallel you see that there's a
part of you that is actually confident
because you recognize that you do fail
and that's what we call brushing it off
you see what you did there
like sometimes I screw up and that's ok
cool you're like you're okay with that
right you're okay with failure yeah yeah
like you kind of have to be yeah right
so you can kind of joke about it but
then there's this other part of you this
is why it's so weird it's like playing
it's like talking to like two different
people there's like this other thing
within you that is this weird kind of
insecurity which anytime I try to dig it
like disappears it's like I'm trying to
catch missed and like I just close my
fist and there's nothing there so it's
like bizarre but I I do think that you
are holding yourself back in some way I
think that I would agree with you that
you probably have this thing going on
where you have the comfort of not being
a failure if you really don't try yeah
right like if you don't really try it's
not really that you're a failure it's
just that you didn't try yeah yeah yeah
good and and so just notice that too
because that thing too it's it's not
that that part of you is stupid that
part of you is just insecure right it is
afraid of what's gonna happen if it
really puts itself to the test if you go
all out its afraid that it's gonna fall
short yep that sounds right yeah so what
do we do about that Kathleen ignore that
part no no no no ignoring it as what
you've been doing okay that's why you
didn't know it was there hmm you trained
yourself to not look at it just accept
it I guess and just spend how do you do
that
just become okay with the fact that it
might not work well that yeah I might
have been right that I shouldn't have
gone for it but that's okay
yeah so I want you to envision so like
how old were you when you first started
to stop trying because you were afraid
of failing um I never stopped trying
okay keep trying but like I always have
that look I hold back a little bit I
guess along the way yeah but I guess I'm
just a young age yeah yeah so so like
like give me give me a number like
envision yourself like when you were
when you started to hold back just a
little bit right like you're at school
and you know the answer but you don't
say it I do that look yeah I can tell
young primary school eight years old
good so I want you to imagine that eight
year old person right mmm imagine she's
your little sister and she tells you
that sometimes I know the answer in
school and I don't raise my hand and I
don't want to say it what would you say
to her
I'd say I'm just you don't have to do it
all the time but you can go for it once
in a while and beautiful it's perfect
brilliant like okay right it's not go
for it all the time it's like every once
in a while it's okay to try yeah like do
you guys the kid like I'm not the only
one that thought that was a perfect
answer right you guys yeah okay twitch
chat agrees yeah cuz cuz it's because
you don't want to be fake you don't want
to be like yeah go for it like you can
do it man that's not what you tell the
eight-year-old that's not what the
eight-year-old needs to hear the
eight-year-old needs here's what I'm
gonna tell you what I heard in it first
of all safety you're giving the
eight-year-old safety right you're not
pushing them into territory that they're
not ready to move into you're also
giving them encouragement
right and you're also giving them like
forgiveness for falling short and you're
doing it ahead of time you're saying
that you don't have to avoid failure and
therefore you can give it your all
because if you fail that's okay you can
do that every once in a while you can
give it a shot you can put your toes in
the water like it's such a perfect thing
to say that's what you tell yourself you
don't [ __ ] ignore it that's not good
you tell you something that what you
just just go back and watch the vaad and
like write it down on a piece of paper
and that's exactly what you tell
yourself we just said it's okay to go
for it it's okay to be a little bit
louder it's okay to be a little bit more
vocal it's okay to to go for it every
once in a while beautiful right so
that's if anyone is wondering if
anyone's watching if you want to
encourage an anxious person to like try
like that's what she just said is just
the perfect thing to say right you give
them safety you give them space you give
them they control it you're not pushing
them you're not like oh do it go do it
speak no it's none of that
it's calmness it's space it's a little
little pat on the back and a little
shove but just a tiny tiny tiny one
beautifully play okay I forgot what we
were talking about but I just got
enamored with what you just said so
anyway what were you talking about oh
yeah how your insecurity holds you back
and your fear of failure and you don't
try and all that kind of good stuff good
job by the way if you did you did you
understand that about yourself um not
not really no no I just assumed I was
insecure about things yeah
yeah but so that's the it's it's really
it's subtle right because I think you
have this insecurity but I actually
think deep down you're very confident in
fact you're your agreeableness is very
low there's a reef emitting called the
Big Five personality model it's a
personality okay it's like a system of
understanding personality traits and
you're very calm
but you're actually like you don't like
once you decide something it's like hard
to change your mind right yeah yeah like
everyone will think that you're playing
along and you agree with them but deep
down you're just gonna be like this is
all dumb I'm just gonna be quiet but
everyone is wrong kind of yes yeah yeah
yeah so so there's that there's that
kind of like deep set sort of I don't
mean this in a bad way but there's that
kind of deep set arrogance that's like
kind of low agreeableness and it's just
like you're just not gonna you're like
it's hard to convince you actually like
once you've made up your mind that's
that's the way I'd put it so that's what
agreeableness is it's like people's
willingness to change their mind and
you're not actually willing to change
your mind so you managed to do all these
other things to just manage your own
feelings and anger and all that kind of
stuff but I think that yeah so is there
something else that you wanted to talk
about are we kind of good um I think
that was um I think that was a lot of it
I guess yeah I think I was really
hopeful okay what was helpful about it
I'm glad you I'm glad it was helpful um
uh most of it ya know just dealing just
dealing with the way I see people I
guess it really does help me because I
don't really often yeah think about it
too much and just what I can do about it
I guess really really hope yeah me so I
hope it helps and and feel free to just
like shoot me a message if that doesn't
work well and you want to talk a little
bit more privately about details and
stuff I may be able to give you some
more concrete advice about how to
approach challenging people in the
workplace but you know it's it's
sometimes details can be helpful but I
do a lot of this stuff with like
investment banks and and people just
places where they're just people who are
really not very open minded or nice or
care about other people's feelings
but you know I I think so a couple of
other things that I would encourage you
to just think about Kathleen so the
first is that it's okay to be angry with
people
like would you describe yourself as an
angry person I mean I feel like I do
have a bit of rage in me yep yeah I
would say definitely I think it's just
buried pretty low and and you're you're
really good at putting on front so it's
it's really tested my ability to like
peek underneath today which has been fun
and and so I think it's okay to feel
those those feelings of anger and it
doesn't make you right or wrong just
acknowledge that you have them and and
and then the other thing is I'd say stop
doing some of these mental gymnastics
right so at the more that you feel the
things that you let your like the more
that you understand the way that you
feel about something and if someone
makes you feel small you know just just
acknowledge that that person is making
you feel that way but the cool thing and
how old are you now if you don't mind me
asking at 26 okay so like there's 26
year old Kathleen who's actually like a
complete badass right sure yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah absolutely right see you
do have confidence and so just remember
that that 26 year old is actually there
too right there's the 8 year old and
there's the 26 year old they're both
there and the weird thing is like they
take turns driving your mind and it
could be like really really confusing so
just remember that there's actually a 26
year old who is like really awesome at
what they do who actually doesn't need
to be any better like you get that you
don't actually like need to be better on
stream right like people come for you
yeah but I could still beat bad out
there you can be a better but but you
don't need to be anyone else no no I
don't need it be anyone else no and do
you cut yourself some slack for not
being the best version of you every day
so that's the next thing okay so what do
you think about that I mean I had I cut
myself slack if I had that they always
say like be the best years like but I
wasn't today mm-hmm
yeah so this this this is gonna be a
whole other I'm I we're gonna have to if
you want to do a follow-up at some point
we'll dig into that but not to like look
so just think about this right so here's
the eight-year-old who's thinking those
thoughts and what is the twenty
six-year-old say to the eight-year-old
who's like no but I like I missed a
question on the test and then the 26
year old is like but but the
eight-year-olds like no I could have
studied harder and I could have gotten a
perfect score everyone tells me to be
the best version of myself and I'm not
being the best version of myself
what would I say to them yeah oh good
that there's always just another day
another task or anything and what does
the eight-year-old say in response to
them probably like but I'll be bad at
that one I'll say who might be the very
good yeah so that's not the right thing
to say
so you haven't figured out what to say
so like your last time so I think you
did a really good job of processing a
lot of what we talked about you came out
with something beautiful but what you
just said the eight-year-old is gonna
slap away yeah they're gonna be like
that works for other people but it
doesn't work for me right that's what
the it you know affects other people are
allowed to make mistakes I'm not allowed
to make mistakes you don't understand
who I am yeah yeah
it looks like lady you're crazy you're
26 what did you know I mean so that's
gonna be so we'll get to that but do you
see that you see it what you're new into
yourself like you hold yourself to an
impossible standard like at least tell
me you see that you don't have to do
anything with it
be yeah a little bit I guess
see you don't even see it yeah of course
of course you could be better yeah
other people hold themselves to
impossible standards you your standard
is not impossible right you can do it if
you work hard enough and if you were
better you could do it yeah yeah I think
maybe yeah yeah yeah yeah okay so I
don't think we're there yet that's okay
okay so we'll just just deal with the
rage deal with the you know the funny
thing about insecurity and and letting
yourself holding yourself back so that
you don't really have to be a complete
failure yeah right and and and get in
touch with the confident awesome 26 year
old and then we'll leave we'll leave the
part of you that can be perfect for
another day like the part of you that
has to be perfect I should say huh
perfect perfect overrated I don't have
to be yeah what do you have to be what
do you have to be what's the standard
you hold yourself to if not perfections
better yeah right so that's dangerous
because because what that also tells me
is that you're not good enough like
you're not sure yeah it's dangerous
being better the the endless pursuit of
being better is one of the most
dangerous things you can do to yourself
because it always means if you if you
can be better it means you're not good
enough and that's something that we have
to figure out how to get that out of you
what tear that out root step I thought
like everyone stripes like to improve
themselves soon yeah why do you think
the world is such an unhappy place
seriously yeah I work with a lot of very
successful people who always want to be
better and I try very hard to teach them
to be okay with the person that they are
right yeah but like then would they work
is hard and it's very good very good
right so a lot of people think that this
the desire to be better is the only way
to motivate yourself to do the best that
you can which happens to be untrue so
there is a different way right there's
different way dr. MA duty so this is
what I want you to do the next time you
stream it's not about whether you can be
better but you're gonna show up and
you're gonna do the best that you can
for the the people that are watching and
you're not gonna be perfect and could
you be better yeah but like it's about
them it's not about you so whether
you're better or not better has nothing
to do with I mean that's all in your
head that's all ego does that make sense
it's about that it's about being the
person that you need to be for the
people that are watching and you devote
yourself to that and you devote yourself
to them instead of yourself because so
far the the pursuit of being better is
about who myself I guess absolutely
right it's all about you so that needs
to change you can still put your best
foot forward and have it be about other
people yeah what do you think about that
hmm that's a little bit confusing for me
because it's yeah although it is for
myself like I just did this like amazing
if I put myself to it and I was like hey
I could do this amazing video I could be
this person who makes amazing videos and
makes this type thing and that was
really good for the audience to say I
much like so but notice what you're
doing so the the main thing that you're
talking about is you could be an amazing
person the audience comes after ya your
focus is on yourself that needs to
change if you want to put your best foot
forward and also forgive yourself for
being what you are you need to put the
audience first right so you can wake up
in the mall
standards h-how'd if i think that what
if i think they want the thing that's
really hard to do it impossible
so you can only make them you can only
give them what you can give them right
okay so if they have impossible
standards like they have impossible
standards but they don't yeah they
actually have very reasonable standards
I know this is absolutely insane but I
actually find twitch chat to be quite
reasonable and quite intelligent no they
are yeah but you can't tell them that
yeah I know that's go straight to their
head talk about it you go anyway so this
is all sneak preview stop just chew on
it a little bit but I think okay let's
try let's try a little bit of meditation
is that okay yeah okay I want you to
close your eyes okay so you could be
better right yes yeah I want you to just
feel that for a second is it thoughts is
it sensations what is it sensations
young yeah the the feeling of not being
good and often that you could be better
comes from where let's just talk about
it it's kind of weird mmm where do you
feel instead where do you feel not good
enough it's just all over no good okay
so just just feel just take a moment I
want you to just take a snapshot of just
what it feels like when I say like yeah
you're you know you could be better and
then you're like yeah absolutely
absolutely like you understand exactly
what I mean so just take a snapshot of
the way that you feel and find that not
good enough miss
okay yeah you got it mm-hmm oh yes sir
okay okay so I want you to open your
eyes okay I want you to do this I know
it's hard yeah it's happening
oh is it yeah very good good enough
great okay so I want you to take your
right right thumb and block your right
nostril and breathe in through your left
you feel nervous no okay
and now block the other side good
breathe out now breathe in through the
same nostril switch good breathe out now
breathe in again excellent switch out in
switch out
okay keep going close your eyes remember
to breathe in switch is it hard as your
nose clogged no no no it's just like I'm
just a little pressure yeah that's okay
good so just notice those feelings that
keep reading through them don't stop hmm
you okay yeah yeah so okay so breathe in
good switch and breathe out then when
you're ready in through the same nostril
and then switch and then out in switch
out in switch continue at your own pace
sit up straight good
aren't you to do nine breaths that's a
lot yeah oh it's okay just take it slow
very good
slow down a little bit actually just
keep going for like I'll tell you when
to stop okay okay focus on the air
coming in from one nostril and leaving
from the other practice for about 60
more seconds
very good
big deep breath
okay go ahead and let your eyes remain
closed finish the breath that you're on
let your hands relax and now notice the
person that you are try to find that
sense of inadequacy you could be better
right if you listen yeah it's persistent
isn't it is it as strong as it used to
be known as much so though I was kept
thinking about how stupid I looked nice
good good perfect alright so you got to
do this for like five minutes a day okay
you can open your eyes okay yeah so
you're gonna have to practice this a lot
okay you're I say this with with great
respect but you're not a natural at this
particular technique I'm nothing
I know it's hard for you I can tell you
must practice okay yeah
all right so thoughts or questions
before we wrap up for the day um no no I
think that was them there's actually
really helpful thank you for thank you
for having me on
yeah thank you for coming on me it's a
really interesting yeah
to here and I am I like what you're
doing on hunt which it's really it's
really really engaging to watch actually
yeah been watching follow the episodes
yeah okay well and okay well thank you
very much Kathleen for coming on and you
know if you want to come on in a couple
weeks and you want to talk about your
sense of you know needing to be better
than you are which we gotta just oh my
god Kathleen you're fine just the way
you are you're just you can only be what
you can be in this moment right you
can't be more
could you have been a better 8th grader
I can't remember but myth baby do you
feel like you could have been a better 8
year old now she's fine
she didn't feel that way no I mean even
now I still think she could have been
more social but you know yeah okay so
it's deep its deep that's okay that's
okay we'll give me some time to think
about this and then we'll figure out how
to get you there being just we just need
to let you accept yourself for who you
are which is just so alien oh my god
okay so we'll figure it out though
so thanks a lot Kathleen for coming on
good luck with everything and you know
let yourself rage on the inside and
acknowledge yourself for feeling that
way and chill out a little bit on on the
inside with the tiny tiny little volcano
and it is great talking to you so good
luck with everything
thank you and guys I'm so you want to
just tell us a little bit about your
channel because you stream and stuff oh
yeah yeah so I'm losing fruit I stream
like variety games and stuff and
sometimes you do some just chatting do
some yeah yeah yeah do we have your are
you streaming now no cuz you're in
Australia or something right
so it's like um yeah yeah I don't only
stream it this time say yeah okay well
then thanks for you know coming on cuz I
guess it's for like really early in the
morning for you right well it's 11:30
but that's solely for me okay well do we
have your like your user name is Italy
just loser fruit or is there like a
number or something loser fruit yeah
okay so guys check out loser fruit and
thank you very much for coming good luck
with everything
thank you bye Hey okay
okay okay so it was there was yeah that
was tricky guys that was she is just
subtle subtle subtle like it's man she
really doesn't show a whole lot and it
was it was it was hard like I was like I
don't I don't know what what is going on
yeah it was but it was good it was good
I'm glad we got somewhere and you guys
see how she figured out that the whole
thing about how insecurity is protective
all all by yourself like at the end I
love it how it happens I love it it's
like you just kind of mess around with
the conscious and the subconscious a
little bit and then they're like oh by
the way um so that was good so it's
great it's great it's like you don't
mean I really don't do a whole lot I
don't know if you guys realize that but
like like people just discover so much
about themselves and you just have to
give them some time in some space to
like explore their mind and you will
figure out all kinds of cool stuff about
yourself and yeah it was challenging so
let's so I think there was okay there's
a belated Valentine's - so I think we're
gonna do I promised you guys I'm sorry
about Valentine's Day but I'm I'm I
don't know if I can talk so I can't do
it justice so I promise I'll tell you
guys this Valentine's Day story